BRAIN WAVE SENSOR:
 It safely measures and transfers the power spectrum generated by brain and changes in electrical impulse transmitted through neurons of the brain (alpha waves, beta waves, etc) data via Bluetooth to wirelessly communicate with your computer, iOS, or Android device. This headset can be simply slipped on to be able to see your brainwaves change in real time. With the Mindwave Mobile you can monitor your levels of attention and relaxation and hence it can determine the mood and somehow thoughts of the person using it.
 It consists of a headset, an ear-clip, and a sensor arm. The headset’s reference and ground electrodes are on the ear clip, while the EEG electrode is on the sensor arm, resting on the forehead above the eye.
Every function carried out by our brains and bodies is enabled by electrical signals.
It measures electrical activity generated by the synchronized activity of thousands of neurons (in volts)
provides excellent time resolution, allowing you to detect activity within cortical areas -even at sub-second timescales
As the voltage fluctuations measured at the electrodes are very small, the recorded data is digitized and sent to an amplifier. The amplified data can then be displayed as a sequence of voltage values.
This electrical activity is what is responsible for the different kinds of brain waves. It’s a complex, fascinating, perfect process where each activity, mental state and thought is capable of emitting a kind of brain wave .And these waves can be detected and processed by this sensor.
It is used to determine:
Driver’s behaviour
Sleep disorder
 Brain damage from head injury
Brain dysfunction that can have a variety of causes (encephalopathy)
Inflammation of the brain (encephalitis)
Stroke
MUSCULE SENSOR:

The muscle sensors measures muscle activity through the electric potential of the muscle, commonly referred to as electromyography.
When your brain tells your muscle to flex, it sends an electrical signal to your muscle to start recruiting motor units.
The muscle sensors will analyze this electrical activity and output an analog signal that represents how hard the muscle is being flexed.
It has a single-supply voltage of +3.1V to +5V, RAW EMG output, polarity protected power pins, indicator LEDs, and (finally) an On/Off switch.
It is mostly used in  medical fields and control systems.

GSM AND GPRS MODULE:
GSM GPRS Modules are one of the commonly used communication modules in embedded systems. A GSM GPRS Module is used to enable communication between a microcontroller (or a microprocessor) and the GSM / GPSR Network. Here, GSM stands for Global System for Mobile Communication and GPRS stands for General Packet Radio Service.  
GSM / GPRS Modules allow microcontrollers to have a wireless communication.

A GSM/GPRS Module is a device or chip that is actually responsible for the wireless communication with the GSM Network.
It does so via SIM and radio waves. It consists of the GSM/GPRS Module, slot for inserting a SIM Card, RS-232 Interface for connecting with computer or a microcontroller, signal status LED, power supply and a provision for connecting microphone and speaker. With the help of this GSM/GPRS Module, we can do the following tasks.
Make, receive or reject voice calls
Send, receive or delete SMS messages in the SIM Card
Add, read and search the contacts in the SIM Card
Send and receive data to / from the GSM/GPRS Network through GPRS with the help of AT commands.
SOCKET PROGRAMMING:
What is Sockets?
Sockets are the endpoints of a bidirectional communications channel. Sockets may communicate within a process, between processes on the same machine, or between processes on different continents.
Sockets may be implemented over a number of different channel types: Unix domain sockets, TCP, UDP, and so on.
In simple words Socket programming is a way of connecting two nodes on a network to communicate with each other. One socket(node) listens on a particular port at an IP, while other socket reaches out to the other to form a connection. Server forms the listener socket while client reaches out to the server. Socket programming is started by importing the socket library and making a simple socket.
import socket
s = socket.socket(socket.AF_INET, socket.SOCK_STREAM)
Here we made a socket instance and passed it two parameters. The first parameter is AF_INET and the second one is SOCK_STREAM. AF_INET refers to  the address family ipv4. The SOCK_STREAM means connection oriented TCP protocol.


Sr.No.	Method & Description
1	s.bind()
This method binds address (hostname, port number pair) to socket.
2	s.listen()
This method sets up and start TCP listener.
3	s.accept()
This passively accept TCP client connection, waiting until connection arrives (blocking).
Server socket methods


Client Socket Methods
Sr.No.	Method & Description
1	s.connect()
This method actively initiates TCP server connection.
Sr.No.	Method & Description
1	s.recv()
This method receives TCP message
2	s.send()
This method transmits TCP message
3	s.recvfrom()
This method receives UDP message
4	s.sendto()
This method transmits UDP message
5	s.close()
This method closes socket
6	socket.gethostname()
Returns the hostname.
General Socket Methods
